---
extension: html
filter:
- erb
- markdown
dirty: true
proposal: true
talk: true
ignite: false
suggestion: false
selected: false
layout: event
author: Jeff Sussna
title: "The Self-Steering Organization: From Cybernetics to DevOps and Beyond"
---
Cybernetics is a profound, strange, and wonderful model for thinking about adaptive systems.
Its name comes from the Greek for steersman, which reflects cybernetics’ view of control
as a circular process based on feedback loops. Its insights have contributed to such
fundamental theoretical developments as the von Neumann computer architecture and systems thinking.
It defines the basic approach that underlies DevOps as well as Agile, Design Thinking, and Lean Startup.
Understanding cybernetics lets us unify these perspectives across domains;
by doing so, we can develop a holistic approach to IT as an inseparable part of adaptive business.

The disruptive, digital service economy is forcing 21st-century businesses
to rethink their approach to control. They need the ability to listen and respond
as much as the ability to plan and execute. They need all parts of their organization
to empathize and collaborate with each other, and with the customer,
in order to continually create shared value. DevOps is a necessary
but not sufficient part of this new approach to organizational structure and behavior.
The three ways of flow, feedback, and continuous learning need to spread to the entire enterprise.
Companies need a fundamental model they can use to guide themselves as dynamic, responsive wholes.
Cybernetics can provide the theoretical underpinnings for such a model.

This talk will help participants expand their perspective on DevOps,
and see it as part of a larger strategy to align digital businesses with the demands
of 21st-century markets. Understanding its commonality with other cybernetics-based methodologies
will enable them to better connect DevOps to the rest of the organization,
and complete the puzzle needed to drive business success in the age of disruption.
The talk will introduce the basic principles of cybernetics, and describe their relevance
to the challenges posed by the new economy. It will explain the relationship
between cybernetics and DevOps and its agile cousins. It will explore the view
that companies can use a cybernetic sensibility to generalize the lessons of DevOps,
and by doing so, begin to understand and operate themselves as truly adaptive systems.
