---
extension: html
filter:
- erb
- markdown
dirty: true
proposal: true
talk: true
ignite: false
suggestion: false
selected: false
layout: event
author: "Theo Schlossnagle"
title: "Tackling Performance, Debugging and Development in Agile Production Environments"
---
Most Internet architectures are highly modular with rapid development of
each component at different cadences.  This constantly shifting underlying
platform, architecture and code base provides frustrating times for the
multi-disciplinary engineers responsible for performance and stability.
 There are methodologies and approaches that can be used to make debugging
as agile as the underlying environment; however it requires some
architectural considerations.  In this talk, I will frame the problem,
discuss how architectures needs to be designed to reduce hostility toward
these activities and finish with a tour though debugging methodologies that
focus on collaboration and understanding cross-team needs.  Without a
DevOps mindset, these methodologies could never emerge nor survive.

After earning undergraduate and graduate degrees from Johns Hopkins
University in computer science with a focus on graphics and randomized
algorithms in distributed systems, he went on to research resource
allocation techniques in distributed systems during four years of
post-graduate work. In 1997, Theo founded OmniTI, which has established
itself as the go-to source for organizations facing today’s most
challenging scalability, performance and security problems. He was also the
principal architect of the Momentum MTA, which is now the flagship product
of Message Systems, Inc. Born from Theo’s vision and technical wisdom, this
innovation is transforming the email software spectrum. Additionally, he
was the principal architect of Fontdeck, which delivers professional
typefaces optimized for the web. Theo founded Circonus in 2010, and
continues to be its CEO and principal architect.

A widely respected industry thought leader, Theo is the author of Scalable
Internet Architectures (Sams) and a frequent speaker at worldwide IT
conferences. Theo is a computer scientist in every respect. Theo is a
member of the IEEE and a senior member of the ACM. He serves on the
editorial board of the ACM’s Queue Magazine.
