---
extension: html
filter:
- erb
- markdown
dirty: true
proposal: true
talk: true
selected: false
layout: event
author: Proposal 30
title: "Encrypt all the packets!"
---

**Abstract**

Private networks are traditionally assumed secure and traffic crossing the public Internet is secured via VPN. For data center to data center traffic, that involves a site-to-site tunnel with a VPN concentrator on either side of the encrypted tunnel.

This "hub and spoke" architecture presents a simple solution for protecting network traffic over the Internet, but making that solution highly available involves added complexity. Multiple tunnels need to exist, with traffic load balanced across them. Automation needs to exist to detect down (and half down) links and redirect traffic. Also these tunnels need to scale up as the amount of traffic passing between data centers increases. And this solution does nothing to protect network traffic on the private network. A private network that is increasingly managed by cloud providers and shared with other companies.

When traffic is flowing over networks that we don't manage (both over the WAN and the LAN) it is time to rethink our network security practices. By using DevOps practices in our network systems, PagerDuty was able to get rid of the hub and spoke model and instead use an IPSec mesh architecture. Each server in our system establishes a secure association with its peer and transmits all traffic using IPSec transport. Each host manages encryption and decryption of its own traffic, so our ability to protect that traffic naturally scales up as we add new infrastructure.

This talk will focus on how we implemented that model. We will dig into the details of our configuration including the policies we use, the encryption and authentication mechanisms in place. We will talk about how this model performs on our systems and what impact it has on the production workload. Finally, we will discuss how it handles failure, bugs we've found along the way, and how we see this model changing as our infrastructure continues to grow.