---
extension: html
filter:
- erb
- markdown
dirty: true
proposal: false
talk_day1: false
talk_day2: true
ignite: false
suggestion: false
selected: true
layout: event_helsinki
author: Ken Barber
title: Developing JVM applications for admins (... JVM applications are evil)
---
So there are many complaints about the JVM platform from
administrators. Most of the problems however are related to the way
applications themselves are written. Development is often done with a
lot of consideration around the end-user experience, but doesn't take
into account the administrators experience very often.

As a developer for a largely devops driven company, we have learnt a
lot of lessons around this. This talk is about the smart things one
can do as a developer to make system administrators lives easier, and
how we try to do this in our own humble but opinionated way. Our goals
have been to improve the impression of the JVM for our users by
listening and learning, treating the interfaces that administrators
use as serious inputs to our system that require UX consideration like
anything and providing helpers wherever possible to bridge the gap
between administrators and our platform.

I'll be talking about what we've done to make this better, from
configuration files to logging, to stop/start scripts and everything
in between, and I'll also talk about the open source application
frameworks we've developed to make this process easier and consistent
across our various software offerings. Further to this, I'll cover
some future ideas for improving things from here. This talk is
targeted at developers who want to make the world a better place,
however the talk is largely from the perspective of an ex-admin who
has only just joined the developer ranks.

Bio:

For the last 2 years I've been a Ruby and Clojure developer at Puppet
Labs, working specifically on the PuppetDB platform, and another 2
years in professional services. Before that I worked for 13 years as a
systems admin in the ISP and Telecommunications industry. I've worked
for Alfresco & Blackberry in the UK, Optus in Australia and travelled
around Europe working for various organisations helping people get up
and running with Puppet. In my spare time I love listening to music
and developing computer games I only show to my friends.
